Last time we created a test that verifies that we can see no blog post initially and then when we actually
add our single blog post that we can see it on the main page.
So we are actually adding a blog post but we weren't testing our own end points for adding blog posts
so I mean the forum for adding the blog post.
So let's see what does this require to be properly tested.
So assuming that we provide valid parameters so they are both present and have the required length the
minimum of five characters for title and ten for content when we press create we should see the blog
post was created.
So that's one thing we should test that we can see a flash message that is being added to the session.
And additionally we can check if we can see the blog post because we are being redirected to this post.
So let's go back to the Visual Studio code and let's proceed with writing this test.
So we are we are adding public function we can call it test store valid.
And in this case we are testing this scenario when we provide all the valid parameters and everything
works.
So let's start by creating an array of valid parameters
so the title should be at least five characters.
So let's give a valid title and the content needs to be present and be at least 10 characters.
Okay so this might serve as our arrange part.
Now we should actually call this end point that saves this blog post and we can use both because this
action is using the post verb and the euro is posts.
And the second argument is our firearms so we are simulating HDP H DTP request that would be made in
the browser like we would be submitting a form.
So in this case when we call the posts if it is valid then it is making our redirect so it is redirecting
to the actual blog post page so we can check for the status.
So assert status would be three hundred and two.
So this is the H DTP code for successful redirect when normal page is being displayed and or the normal
sexist code is 200 but in case when we have a redirect then it is three hundred two.
Now how we can check if the this status message this flash message was added to the session we can use
another session method called assert session has
and now we can take a look at how our session variable is called.
So inside the store method in our controller we we are adding a flash message called status so let's
check if it contains status so we can see that we can change all those messages.
So first we call post and then we can call immediately the Assad status on the result and then immediately
call another assertion that we'll be operating on the same response
and finally we can verify if this message is actually what we expect it to be.
So we can use this our CERT equals
and we can read the session variable value using the session method session function.
Sorry.
So it's called status
and now let's check inside the browser what we should expect.
So we are adding the blog post was created.
We can even copy that
okay.
Now we should be able to run this test so let's run peach unit and you can see that it is successful
so we have started the blog post because we provided white bathrooms.
Also we have checked for a redirect.
We verified that status variable is inside the session.
So we have a status and that the status is actually equal to the blog post was created.
So this was pretty simple wasn't it.
In the next lecture I will show you how we can test for the failure in the sense that the user provided
invalid parameters because we also have to test for situations like this whether our validation works
as expected and also you will see how to test editing and deleting.